README.md, before:

# A Regression Model to Detect CrossTalk in Microscopy Images

## Setup

### Step 1: Install a Python Distribution

We recommend using conda as it's relatively straightforward and makes the management of different Python environments simple. You can install conda from [here](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html#regular-installation) (miniconda will suffice).

## Step 2: Set Up Environment

Once conda is installed, open a terminal (Mac) or AnaConda Prompt (Windows) and run the following series of commands:

```
conda create --name crosstalk-detection python=3.13
conda activate crosstalk-detection
python -m pip install -r <path to this repo>/requirements.txt
```
where you need to replace `<path to this repo>` with the location on your file system where you downloaded this repo. You will be presented with a list of packages to be downloaded and installed. The following prompt will appear:
```
Proceed ([y]/n)?
```
Hit Enter and all necessary packages will be downloaded and installed - this may take some time. When complete, you can deactivate the environment you have created with the following command.

```
conda deactivate
```
You have successfully set up your environment!

## Evaluation

To test the pre-trained model (or your own model - see below) on the test data in this repo, and compare to other metrics such as Pearson's Correlation Coefficient, activate the environment you created above and run the following command:

```
python test-cross-talk-model.py [-h] [-m MIXED_CHANNEL_DATA_DIR] [-s PURE_SOURCE_DATA_DIR] [-p MODEL_PATH] [-j CPU_JOBS] [-o {single,double}]
```

## Training

To train a model using default settings on your own data, activate the environment you created above and run the following command:

```
python Train_U-Net.py [-h] [-m MIXED_CHANNEL_DATA_DIR] [-s PURE_SOURCE_DATA_DIR] [-b BATCH_SIZE] [-l LEARNING_RATE] [-n NUM_EPOCHS] [-t TRAIN_RATIO] [-v VAL_RATIO] [-j CPU_JOBS] [-o {single,double}] [-r {aggressive_plateau,onecycle,cosine_warmup}]
```

A number of options can be specified to control the training process:

```
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -m, --mixed_channel_data_dir MIXED_CHANNEL_DATA_DIR
                        Directory for mixed channel data
  -s, --pure_source_data_dir PURE_SOURCE_DATA_DIR
                        Directory for pure source data
  -b, --batch_size BATCH_SIZE
                        Batch size for training
  -l, --learning_rate LEARNING_RATE
                        Learning rate for training
  -n, --num_epochs NUM_EPOCHS
                        Number of epochs for training
  -t, --train_ratio TRAIN_RATIO
                        Training data ratio
  -v, --val_ratio VAL_RATIO
                        Validation data ratio
  -j, --cpu_jobs CPU_JOBS
                        Number of CPUs to use
  -o, --model_options {single,double}
                        Use single- or double-branch model
  -r, --learning_scheduler {aggressive_plateau,onecycle,cosine_warmup}
                        Use aggressive_plateau, onecycle or cosine_warmup learning scheduler
```

Commit message:

Document command-line options for the model script
Added command-line options for the test-cross-talk-model.py script in the README.

README.md, after:

# A Regression Model to Detect CrossTalk in Microscopy Images

## Setup

### Step 1: Install a Python Distribution

We recommend using conda as it's relatively straightforward and makes the management of different Python environments simple. You can install conda from [here](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html#regular-installation) (miniconda will suffice).

## Step 2: Set Up Environment

Once conda is installed, open a terminal (Mac) or AnaConda Prompt (Windows) and run the following series of commands:

```
conda create --name crosstalk-detection python=3.13
conda activate crosstalk-detection
python -m pip install -r <path to this repo>/requirements.txt
```
where you need to replace `<path to this repo>` with the location on your file system where you downloaded this repo. You will be presented with a list of packages to be downloaded and installed. The following prompt will appear:
```
Proceed ([y]/n)?
```
Hit Enter and all necessary packages will be downloaded and installed - this may take some time. When complete, you can deactivate the environment you have created with the following command.

```
conda deactivate
```
You have successfully set up your environment!

## Evaluation

To test the pre-trained model (or your own model - see below) on the test data in this repo, and compare to other metrics such as Pearson's Correlation Coefficient, activate the environment you created above and run the following command:

```
python test-cross-talk-model.py [-h] [-m MIXED_CHANNEL_DATA_DIR] [-s PURE_SOURCE_DATA_DIR] [-p MODEL_PATH] [-j CPU_JOBS] [-o {single,double}]
```

A number of options can be specified:

```
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -m, --mixed_channel_data_dir MIXED_CHANNEL_DATA_DIR
                        Directory for mixed channel data
  -s, --pure_source_data_dir PURE_SOURCE_DATA_DIR
                        Directory for pure source data
  -p, --model_path MODEL_PATH
                        Path to pytorch model
  -j, --cpu_jobs CPU_JOBS
                        Number of CPUs to use
  -o, --model_options {single,double}
                        Use single- or double-branch model
```

## Training

To train a model using default settings on your own data, activate the environment you created above and run the following command:

```
python Train_U-Net.py [-h] [-m MIXED_CHANNEL_DATA_DIR] [-s PURE_SOURCE_DATA_DIR] [-b BATCH_SIZE] [-l LEARNING_RATE] [-n NUM_EPOCHS] [-t TRAIN_RATIO] [-v VAL_RATIO] [-j CPU_JOBS] [-o {single,double}] [-r {aggressive_plateau,onecycle,cosine_warmup}]
```

A number of options can be specified to control the training process:

```
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -m, --mixed_channel_data_dir MIXED_CHANNEL_DATA_DIR
                        Directory for mixed channel data
  -s, --pure_source_data_dir PURE_SOURCE_DATA_DIR
                        Directory for pure source data
  -b, --batch_size BATCH_SIZE
                        Batch size for training
  -l, --learning_rate LEARNING_RATE
                        Learning rate for training
  -n, --num_epochs NUM_EPOCHS
                        Number of epochs for training
  -t, --train_ratio TRAIN_RATIO
                        Training data ratio
  -v, --val_ratio VAL_RATIO
                        Validation data ratio
  -j, --cpu_jobs CPU_JOBS
                        Number of CPUs to use
  -o, --model_options {single,double}
                        Use single- or double-branch model
  -r, --learning_scheduler {aggressive_plateau,onecycle,cosine_warmup}
                        Use aggressive_plateau, onecycle or cosine_warmup learning scheduler
```
